Hey everyone!
Welcome back to Boost Your Income with
Bootstrap To WordPress.
This lecture is called
Two Ways Building Custom WordPress
Websites Can Make You More Money.
Check it out.
[MUSIC]
All right,
let me tell you the two most common
ways you can make money with WordPress.
Now keep in mind this course and
what I'm about to say isn't a get rich
quick scheme or anything like that.
You're not just going to
make money overnight.
You actually have to put
significant effort into any way
you're going to make money.
With WordPress.
It doesn't come easy, hard work is
involved and you need to be good at it.
So, keep that in mind as we move forward.
The first most common way of making money
with WordPress is by developing custom
WordPress themes and selling them
on a marketplace like ThemeForest.
So here's an example of
a list of WordPress blog and
magazine themes that you could
download at themeforest.net.
Basically you come here, you check out
a theme, you see if you like the design,
looks good, you wanna use that for
your specific WordPress blog, or
your WordPress theme.
You download that.
Install that in WordPress and
then boom, there it is, it's a custom
designed theme you just purchased and
slapped it on your blog.
You can make money doing that obviously.
Basically what you do is,
you develop a custom WordPress theme and
then publish it on
the ThemeForest Marketplace,
however it's not as easy
as just doing it like that.
Building a custom WordPress
theme is actually a lot of work.
And by taking this course, keep in mind,
this course isn't about how to make custom
WordPress themes for ThemeForest, because
that could be a whole separate course.
There are things that need to
go into marketing your theme and
support, you need to have ongoing support
you have to always update your theme.
And there are a lot of intricate
little details involved in a custom
WordPress them that you need to cover.
This course, more specifically,
is about the second way of making
money with WordPress,
which I'll touch on in a second.
I just wanna show you for those who are
interested in the possibility of making
money selling themes on ThemeForest or
any other theme marketplace.
I wanna show you how much it's possible
to make with WordPress themes.
So here I have the WordPress blog and
magazine themes I just pulled up this and
I am sorting it by sales.
Right here it's sorting by descending,
so it's currently showing the most
popular or
the WordPress theme with the most sales.
So basically you just have
to do a little bit of math.
$58 is what they're selling this theme
for, and they've made 11,823 sales.
That's just south of three
quarters of a million dollars.
So it's likely that TaiLabs,
the author of this plugin, is a studio.
And they develop WordPress
themes exclusively.
So they might have a team, and
they are probably pretty dang good.
And you know they have expenses.
They have to pay there employees.
They have insurance.
They probably have a brick and
mortar shop.
They have servers, and
they probably hire a support team.
So that's why they have so much money.
From this theme.
But this is just one theme.
These guys, they probably have
a few themes and they do.
They look like they have
a handful of themes.
And so if one of those
themes was making just south
of three quarters of a million dollars,
can you imagine four, five,
six themes, even if those only
did half as good as this one.
That's a lot of money.
Now keep in mind, you don't just
start developing WordPress themes and
then all of a sudden you're a millionaire.
Doesn't work like that.
If I sort this by ascending so from the
bottom to the top, you can see this theme
by this author, it's selling for
$43 and has sold two themes.
So this person has made, what, $86?
Plus the hosting that they've paid for
to put the website up and
the work that they've put in to
creating it, and they've made 86 bucks.
Not a really good profit margin.
Now, this is the worst of the worst.
And this is the best of the best.
So, that's a lot of
wiggle room in between.
From $86 to three quarters
of a million dollars.
Somewhere in the middle there, if you
create something really great, you really,
really look into creating
an amazing WordPress theme.
And you put in all of the details
such as support, marketing,
doing it correctly,
getting it up on ThemeForest, and
ongoing support, ongoing updates.
Then you could do pretty decent for
yourself.
You could have a good side income doing
this, or you could be full time doing
this and making yourself a nice
salary just selling WordPress themes.
Now, this course more specifically is
about how to make money the second way,
with custom WordPress sites.
And that is by creating custom
WordPress websites for clients.
So, if you're a freelancer, if you
wanna start a freelance business, or
you work at a studio, and your studio,
they build WordPress websites for
their clients, and
you wanna be a part of that process.
Or if you're a graphic designer and
you want to code the websites
that you've designed rather than outsource
them to a skilled developer, or say, for
example, you know how to build WordPress
websites and you wanna get a job.
You want a career at a studio full time.
That's more so what this course is about.
But the bonuses, hey, you could take these
skills you're learning in this course and
you could go start
building WordPress themes.
So let me just show you
the jobs that you can get
by knowing how to build
WordPress websites.
So right here on authenticjobs.com,
there's a lead WordPress plugin developer.
Like I said earlier,
in this course at the very beginning,
we're going to be building our own plugin.
So, these guys,
this is a telecommute opportunity, so
it's kind of, it's not like a you
don't need to be there specifically.
So you can work anywhere from US or
Canada in this specific job, and
it looks like an awesome job.
And, they're paying you anywhere for
40 to 70 bucks per hour
based on your experience and
your qualifications, how good you are.
That's pretty good.
For a full time telecommute job.
Right here WordPress front and
back end developer.
They need these guys on site.
And it looks like they're paying up
to $70,000 a year, or $38 per hour.
That's also pretty darn good.
Senior web designer here on Crop.com,
San Fernando Valley, California.
They're going around 45 bucks an hour
depending on your experience for
a really awesome web design job where you
probably need to know some WordPress.
And this is just a handful of jobs.
There's a lot more all over the web.
And this is for
people who are looking for studio jobs.
That's not mentioning
the being of self-employed or
just creating a side business while you're
already self-employed somewhere else.
If you're a freelancer you can make,
if you're just beginning your
hourly rate's gonna be much less,
but if you're experienced, you have a few
years experience or you're really good.
You could be making anywhere from 60,
70, 90, 100, 150 bucks an hour.
And you could be making 75,000 a year,
100,000 a year, 150k a year.
I mean, the sky's the limit
depending on how good you are and
how good of a business person you are, but
if you're just looking for some side cash.
If you build a WordPress website,
a custom WordPress website for a client,
it's likely that that budget's
gonna be around 2,000, 3,000 bucks.
Because you wouldn't wanna sell a
WordPress website for much less than that.
It's not the average,
you wouldn't wanna do that.
I mean if you have a big client, you could
be selling a custom WordPress website for
them for five grand, six grand.
If you're a graphic designer, you charge
your two, three thousand dollars for
your graphic design work, and then you say
okay, now we're moving to the web design
and web development phase,
that's gonna be another 5K.
There's a 10K project for you right there.
And I know I'm just kinda
throwing numbers around here.
But there's so much possibility
with increasing your income
significantly just by knowing how
to develop WordPress websites.
It's amazing and I hope that excites
you for the rest of the course.
I'm gonna see you in the next lecture
where I'm gonna tell you a little story
about how my fear of building
custom WordPress websites
cost me roughly $24,000.
See you there.
[MUSIC]